README.md, before:

# Transparent socket-activated UDP Proxy/Forwarder for systemd

Written as quick workaround to
**systemd-socket-proxyd** as of systemd v231 not forwarding UDP datagrams.

Does not convert between IPv4 and IPv6.
The family of incoming and outgoing sockets/addresses must match.

## Requirements

 * systemd v221 or later (tested with v231)
 * Linux 3.10.0 or later
 * GCC to compile this

## Compile

The usual `gcc -Os -o systemd-transparent-udp-forwarderd *.c -lsystemd`,
or use **cmake**:

```bash
mkdir build && cd $_ && \
CFLAGS="-march=silvermont -mtune=intel" cmake -GNinja .. && \
ninja -v

# or, if you prefer make:
mkdir build && cd $_ && \
CFLAGS="-march=silvermont -mtune=intel" cmake .. && \
make
```

## Run

We will use **Avorion**, a random game, for this example.
It expects UDP packets on ports 27000, 27003, 27020, and 27021, but cannot be socket-activated.
It's *service file* looks like this (excerpt):

```ini
# avorion-server.service
[Service]
ExecStart=/usr/bin/rkt run \
  --dns=host --net="ptp0:IP=172.16.28.240" \
  blitznote.com/aci/avorion-server
```

We need to forward UDP datagrams arriving at the host to above container address.

Unlike *systemd-socket-proxyd* *systemd-transparent-udp-forwarderd* can handle more than one socket.
We can therefore write:

```ini
# proxy-to-avorion-udp.socket
[Socket]
ListenDatagram=0.0.0.0:27000
ListenDatagram=0.0.0.0:27003
ListenDatagram=0.0.0.0:27020
ListenDatagram=0.0.0.0:27021
Transparent=true

[Install]
WantedBy=sockets.target
```

… which, if enabled, on incoming datagrams starts:

```ini
# proxy-to-avorion-udp.service
[Unit]
BindsTo=avorion-server.service
After=avorion-server.service

[Service]
Type=notify
ExecStart=/opt/sbin/systemd-transparent-udp-forwarderd \
  172.16.28.240:27000 \
  172.16.28.240:27003 \
  172.16.28.240:27020 \
  172.16.28.240:27021
```

### Please Note

Packets sent to the container will not have the host's address, but will appear to have been sent by
a remote source (»originator«).

Responses will not go through this *forwarder*. Instead, whatever is in the container will address them to the originator(s)' IPs.

Remember to configure `SNAT`/`MASQUERADE` rules to modify the source address of outgoing packets.
If you forgot this, your server will emit IP packets with a container-local address as source,
which in turn will most likely result in them being suppressed by your DC/network operator.
*Kubernetes* and other orchestration tools do set them automatically, though.

Commit message:

README: display a build badge, and link to binaries

README.md, after:

# Transparent socket-activated UDP Proxy/Forwarder for systemd

[![build status](https://hub.blitznote.com/mark/udp-proxy/badges/master/build.svg)](https://hub.blitznote.com/mark/udp-proxy/commits/master)

Written as quick workaround to
**systemd-socket-proxyd** as of systemd v231 not forwarding UDP datagrams.

Does not convert between IPv4 and IPv6.
The family of incoming and outgoing sockets/addresses must match.

You can find the latest version I run in production here:

 * [systemd-transparent-udp-forwarderd](https://s.blitznote.com/debs/ubuntu/amd64/systemd-transparent-udp-forwarderd)
 * [systemd-transparent-udp-forwarderd.asc](https://s.blitznote.com/debs/ubuntu/amd64/systemd-transparent-udp-forwarderd.asc)

## Requirements

 * systemd v221 or later (tested with v231)
 * Linux 3.10.0 or later
 * GCC to compile this

## Compile

The usual `gcc -Os -o systemd-transparent-udp-forwarderd *.c -lsystemd`,
or use **cmake**:

```bash
mkdir build && cd $_ && \
CFLAGS="-march=silvermont -mtune=intel" cmake -GNinja .. && \
ninja -v

# or, if you prefer make:
mkdir build && cd $_ && \
CFLAGS="-march=silvermont -mtune=intel" cmake .. && \
make
```

## Run

We will use **Avorion**, a random game, for this example,
which expects UDP packets on ports 27000, 27003, 27020, and 27021; but cannot be socket-activated.
Its *service file* looks like this (excerpt):

```ini
# avorion-server.service
[Service]
ExecStart=/usr/bin/rkt run \
  --dns=host --net="ptp0:IP=172.16.28.240" \
  blitznote.com/aci/avorion-server
```

We need to forward UDP datagrams arriving at the host to above container address.

Unlike *systemd-socket-proxyd*, *systemd-transparent-udp-forwarderd* can handle more than one socket.
We can therefore write:

```ini
# proxy-to-avorion-udp.socket
[Socket]
ListenDatagram=0.0.0.0:27000
ListenDatagram=0.0.0.0:27003
ListenDatagram=0.0.0.0:27020
ListenDatagram=0.0.0.0:27021
Transparent=true

[Install]
WantedBy=sockets.target
```

… which—iff enabled—on incoming datagrams starts:

```ini
# proxy-to-avorion-udp.service
[Unit]
BindsTo=avorion-server.service
After=avorion-server.service

[Service]
Type=notify
ExecStart=/opt/sbin/systemd-transparent-udp-forwarderd \
  172.16.28.240:27000 \
  172.16.28.240:27003 \
  172.16.28.240:27020 \
  172.16.28.240:27021
```

### Please Note

Packets sent to the container will not appear to have been sent from the host,
but retain the remote source's (»originator«) address.

Responses will not go through this *forwarder*.
Instead, whatever is in the container will address the originator(s)' IPs directly.

Remember to configure `SNAT`/`MASQUERADE` rules to modify the source address of outgoing packets.
If you forgot this, your server will emit IP packets with container-local addresses as source,
which in turn will most likely result in them being suppressed by your DC/network operator.
*Kubernetes* and other orchestration tools do set those rules automatically.
